spack develop: fast automatic reconcretization (#51140)
LLNL/spack: lib/spack/docs/environments.rst

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``spack develop`` command allows one to develop Spack packages in an environment.
It will configure Spack to install the package from local source.
By default, ``spack develop`` will also clone the package to a subdirectory in the environment for the local source.
These choices can be overridden with the ``--path`` argument, and the ``--no-clone`` argument.
Relative paths provided to the ``--path`` argument will be resolved relative to the environment directory.

When concretizing an environment with develop specs, all attributes of the spec provided to the ``spack develop`` command will be applied by the concretizer (in addition to any constraints from the packages ``specs`` list).
If a version is not included in those constraints, Spack will choose the **highest** version of the package.
This means that any "infinity" versions (``develop``, ``main``, etc.) will be preferred for specs marked with the ``spack develop`` command.
These packages will have an automatic ``dev_path`` variant added by the concretizer, with a value of the absolute path to the local source Spack is building from.

> Spack will ensure the package and its dependents are rebuild any time the environment is installed if the pacakge's local source code has been modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spack will ensure the package and its dependents are rebuilt any time the environment is installed if the package's local source code has been modified.
```

> Spack will ensure the package and its dependents are rebuild any time the environment is installed if the package's local source code has been modified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Spack will ensure the package and its dependents are rebuilt any time the environment is installed if the package's local source code has been modified.
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The ``spack develop`` command allows one to develop Spack packages in an environment.

Reviewer: An example of `spack develop foo@bar` plus its corresponding

```yaml
spack:
  develop:
    pkg:
      spec: ...
```

would make it easier to follow the next few paragraphs.

It will configure Spack to install the package from local source.
By default, ``spack develop`` will also clone the package to a subdirectory in the environment for the local source.
These choices can be overridden with the ``--path`` argument, and the ``--no-clone`` argument.
Relative paths provided to the ``--path`` argument will be resolved relative to the environment directory.

> When concretizing an environment with develop specs, all attributes of the spec provided to the ``spack develop`` command will be applied by the concretizer (in addition to any constraints from the packages ``specs`` list).

Reviewer: Maybe not immediately clear what "all attributes of the spec" is? Something like "the version, variants, and other attributes of the spec ...". And "applied by the concretizer" is somewhat vague, maybe "are applied as a requirement by the concretizer"? Could link to package requirements.

If a version is not included in those constraints, Spack will choose the **highest** version of the package.
This means that any "infinity" versions (``develop``, ``main``, etc.) will be preferred for specs marked with the ``spack develop`` command.
These packages will have an automatic ``dev_path`` variant added by the concretizer, with a value of the absolute path to the local source Spack is building from.
Spack will ensure the package and its dependents are rebuilt any time the environment is installed if the package's local source code has been modified.
Spack's native implementation is to check if ``mtime`` is newer than the installation.
A custom check can be created by overriding the ``detect_dev_src_change`` method in your package class.
This is particularly useful for projects using custom Spack repos to drive development and want to optimize performance.

> When ``spack develop`` is run in a concretized environment, Spack will modify the concrete specs in the environment to include any applicable ``dev_path`` variants.

Reviewer: If this is the typical use case, I would introduce this first.

Then follow up with the abstract spack.yaml file (no spack.lock file), and talk about the subtleties regarding "if a version is not included" and how it affects concretization, which is not as easy to follow.
